After the test has been implemented and
we've collected all the data
form the experiment, we can begin
preparing the data for analysis.
First, we'll clean the data to
remove unwanted data points.
Next, we'll calculate lift, or
difference in observations,
from treatment to control group.
And lastly,
we'll communicate our results.
Cleaning data to remove
unwanted data points is related
only to control variables.
It's unethical to remove data for
reasons other than for control purposes.
In the website optimization experiment,
we want to prepare the data
such that each individual IP
address is only shown once.
We'll consolidate records
to accomplish this, and
possibly even remove some outliers.
Second, we need to remove data for
users who already have an account, and
would not need to sign up for an account
since they wouldn't click on the link.
And this would skew the data.
We are interested in the propensity of
users who do not have loyalty accounts
in clicking on the link.
Let's demonstrate how
we'll prepare our data.
Let's create an Alteryx workflow and
import the data
in the grocery website AB test data
file using the Input Data tool.
We're also going to
add a Browse tool and
run the workflow to take
a look at our data.
Before we start preparing the data,
it's a good idea to ensure we
understand the data we have.
The RecordID is just
the identifier of the row of data.
And the IP Address is the address of
the user who is visiting our website.
The LoggedinFlag is 1 if the user
has an account and is logged in.
And the ServerID is one of the three
servers that the user was routed
through.
Remember that ServerID 2 and
3 represent the control group, and
ServerID 1 is the treatment group.
The last column, VisitPageFlag, is 1 if
the user clicked on the page with
information about the loyalty program.
Users may have visited the site multiple
times during the treatment period.
An IP address is always routed to the
same server, so an IP address cannot be
in both treatment and
control groups at the same time.
For this experiment, let's say that
if a user ever clicked through,
we will count them as a 1.
And if they never did,
they will be counted as a 0.
Since the data we imported
is in a CSV file,
all the fields will
be loaded as strings.
We'll convert the VisitPageFlag
to a numeric value to
simplify our data preparation.
Let's add a Select tool and change
the data type of the VisitPageFlag
to integer 16,
since the value is always 1 or 0.
Now, we can use a Summarize tool and
easily group all the rows of data by
IP Address, ServerID, and LoggedinFlag,
while summing the VisitPageFlag field.
The Sum_VisitPageFlag field will be 0 if
the user has never clicked on a link,
and 1 or more if they have.
This will result in consolidating
the data such that there is only
one line per IP address.
Now, we can use a simple formula to
create a flag with the 1 and 0 values.
Adding the formula tool onto the canvas
will create a new integer field named
visitflag and use the formula if some
visitflag field is not equal to 0,
then 1, otherwise 0.
We are taking this step in case there
are IP addresses with more than one
visit.
Let's also create a new field to
identify the group the IP address falls
into.
We'll create a new string field
named Group with the formula,
if ServerID equals 1,
then treatment, otherwise control.
Next, we need to filter out all the data
where the user already has an account.
Let's remove all records where
the LoggedinFlag field equals 1 using
the Filter tool.
We can use a basic filter where
the LoggedinFlag does not equal 1.
We'll add a Browse tool
to the t output and
run the workflow to look at our results.
Looking at our data,
we are ready for analysis.
We have the data indicating the group
the visitor is in, whether or
not they visited the page
by clicking on the link.
We don't have any people
who have logged in.
And we only have one row per visitor.